Asynchronous Messaging Service - FW Architecture (#441)
thesofproject/sof-docs: architectures/firmware/sof-zephyr/mpp_layer/async_messaging.rst

.. _async_msg:

Asynchronous Messaging Service
##############################

Asynchronous Messaging Service (AMS) is designed to exchange sporadic /
asynchronous events between firmware components, for instance about key phrase
detection. It is an optional component that can be selected in firmware build
configuration. The service exposes external interface to host and API accessible
from firmware components.

Asynchronous messages are one-way from producer to all consumers, which
allows to:

  - direct asynchronous communication between components (1:1)
  - sending one asynchronous message to many components (1:N)
  - producing asynchronous messages by many modules and 1 is receiving (M:1)

>   - producing asynchronous messages by many modules and many is receiving (M:N)

Author: > I assume base FW is a supported sender/target ? May need to spell this out.

@lgirdwood yhe mechanism is designed for sending Async messages between components, some base FW management components can register and produce events if needed as well, but I would say that base FW is a set of components and not target/sender per se.

> and is host a target too ?

Currently no. Host notifications are send via IPC notification mechanism. Generally the AMS design can be extended for Host Async Messaging Gateway to support that, but currently it is not in scope.

>   - producing asynchronous messages by many modules and many is receiving (M:N)

Reviewer: ok, it would be good to use AMS for host sending too i.e. one API for messaging and could be used today for Keyword notification. We could have this as a TODO though.

.. _async_msg:

Asynchronous Messaging Service
##############################

Asynchronous Messaging Service (AMS) is designed to exchange sporadic /

> asynchronous events between firmware components, for instance about key phrase

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
asynchronous events between firmware components, such as key phrase
```

> detection. It is an optional component that can be selected in firmware build

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
detection. It can also be optionally selected in the firmware build
```

> configuration. The service exposes external interface to host and API accessible

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
configuration. The service exposes an external interface to the host and is API accessible
```

from firmware components.

> **NOTE:** The AMS integration is currently work in progress - might not be fully

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** The AMS integration is currently a work in progress; it might not be fully
```

functional in SOF main branch.

> Asynchronous messages are one-way from producer to all consumers, which

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Asynchronous messages are one-way from producer to all consumers and
```

> allows to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
allows for:
```

  - direct asynchronous communication between components (1:1)
  - sending one asynchronous message to many components (1:N)

>   - producing asynchronous messages by many modules and 1 is receiving (M:1)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - producing asynchronous messages by many modules where 1 is receiving (M:1)
```

>   - producing asynchronous messages by many modules and many is receiving (M:N)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - producing asynchronous messages by many modules where many are receiving (M:N)
```

Messages are exchanged over IDC protocol and shared memory with multi-core

> support. Message producers and consumers can be running on different cores.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
support. Message producers and consumers can be run on different cores.
```
